Foundation Models: web crawled and old data, toxic content; uses transformer architecture
Filtering techniques? Language distribution is uneven; and miss other language as most are in english
Domain and language specific data are more.
Less training but more of adaptation
Self Supervision: prediction based on input data; addressed data labeling issue.
Foundational Models:
 Limited to trained on data ; mostly based on web crawl
Filtering technique??

During inference; transformers works into 2 steps:
   Prefill: Process all input tokens in parallel to create intermediate state
   Decode:Generate one Output token at a time

It has 3 Vectors:
Query(Q): Represents the information model looking for
Key: Index to previous token 
Value: Value to previous token

The importance of the input token is compared based on the value of Q and K; where in high similarity between two means Value V will have more impact on output:
This is the reason for longer context windows being expensive as had to calculate lot of K and Q

Transformer is multi heads means ; multiple tokens can be focused simultaneously
LLMab: has 32 attention heads? .. means?
It has number of blocks called layer and each has encoder, decoder and output as token probability

Another Architecture: RNN + parallel capabilities ⇒ RWKV
Receptance Weighted Key Value (RWKV) 

Model Size:
  A bigger model means more parameters; These parameters helps to compute the resources needed for training and inference as well.
Large Sparse Models: Chinchilla Scaling Law

Training Data
Electricity

Pre Trained Foundation Models: Has following bottlenecks:
Optimized for text completion and NOT for Conversation
Output can be ethically incorrect
 
Supervised fine tuning is solution and needs the instruction data..

Evaluations:
  Mathematical proof not easy and 
  Multiple valid outputs
Publicly available benchmarks turns invalid soon.

Cross Entropy or Perplexity:
Models evaluation during training

Entropy: How much information a token carries on an average and higher the entropy means more UNpredicatble.
Models should learn distribution of training data well for better result.
For perfectly trained model data ; the entropy would be the same for training and testing data.
Perplexity is exponential to entropy and finds the lower value means better the model
SoftMax???
